Well we've finally come to the U-V mapping portion of our character model here.
I've done a couple of things since the last video I've gone ahead and made everything all one object.
So if I select one part of them you can see the whole thing is selected.
I've just called this entire thing low poly character.
We've got a lot of other things over here and the other layers and that's fine.
We don't need to worry about all that right now but I've taken all of those pieces the fingers the tunic
the belt buckles everything and selected them all and press control J and join them into all one object.
Now you don't have to do this as you U-V map.
But ultimately I think it's going to be beneficial before we do the character rigging process.
But I did this because I wanted to show you just how much you can break apart and put your character
back together as you U-V map.
So there are two tools.
One is edge split and one is remove doubles that use a lot as the map.
And let me just show you what I mean here.
If I zoom in to say this glove piece here and I'm a tab into edit mode if I hover over this glove and
press the key you can see it selects the entire connected or linked piece of the glove and the arm and
the torso and the straps.
Those are all one piece of the object.
But if I just wanted to focus on this glove what I could do is I could actually select this edge here
with Allt click.
And then I could go to Control E and choose edge split.
And what that'll do now is if I hover over this glove again and press the key it'll only select that
piece.
Now I could do things like use Shift h to isolate that and I can just concentrate on this one piece
of the model while I'm U-V mapping now to bring everything back I can choose Alt.
H.
And then in the end if I want to connect these pieces back together which I think will be good when
we get to the rigging and skinning stage.
What I can do is just hit the Z key to go to wireframe and I'm going to go to vertex mode and I can
press the control key and click and drag to lasso these points.
And now if I go to Control V for the vertex menu I can choose remove doubles and that will just take
any two vertices that are right on top of each other and merge them into one.
So now it says removed 10 vertices.
Now if I come back and hover over this glove I can press the L key again and it will select that whole
piece.
So that's kind of the process I use to break things apart and put them back together as I U.V. map.
All right.
So let's now take a look at what we would like to U-V map first.
For me I like to do the easiest thing first.
I know people tell you you know get the hard stuff out of the way.
I don't believe in that when it comes to 3D work.
What I like to do for something like this is begin with the absolute simplest part first and then move
toward the complex.
And then by the time you get to the end of the process you've had a lot of practice.
So now when you get to the complex parts you're better at it and can do it better.
I may be completely fooling myself about this but this is the way I work.
So for me I think the easiest part of this would be these little buckles on the belt and the strap.
So what I'm going to do is go to my U.V. editing screen layout up here.
And over in this window I'll press the period key to zoom into that belt buckle the U.V. editing view
by default has this kind of ghost image shading and I'm not a big fan of this.
I'm just going to come down here and turn this off and I go now to see all of this I'm going to go ahead
and hide everything else I'm going to press shift H.
And that will hide everything but this and I think I want to split this piece off from the rest of the
object.
So what I'm going to do is create a seam along this edge so I press alt and click that edge to select
that entire edge loop and I'll press control E..
And choose Marxian.
Now that seam has been created there.
When I use the map that is when I unwrap it those two parts will be broken out as two separate islands
over here in the U-V map.
So to unwrap this I'll select everything by pressing the a key.
I'll bring up the U-V mapping menu by pressing the U key and then I'll just click unwrap and there it
is.
So there is our first U-V map.
Now we can turn on this little stretched view right here and that will give us this blue shading.
And it basically tells us that anything that is dark blue is not stretched and anything that's red or
moving towards red is stretched.
So you can see we've got some stretching here.
It may not be a bad thing but we probably want to test it and see.
So to test this to see if this is going to work for us we need to apply a test texture or test pattern
to the object so we can see if there's any stretching and to do that we've got to apply a material to
the object.
So let's go and create a new window here.
I'm just going to click on this upper corner right here and click and move that down.
So we get a new window and I'm going to change this one from the U-V editing view to a node editor.
Now right up front I want to point out that I've got the cycles a render engine chosen here by default
I believe Blendr still opens up with the Blendr internal engine you just need to come up here and click
on this menu and choose cycle's render and that will make sure that your note editor looks the same
as mine here.
So now we need to create a material for our object so here's where we can create a new material I'll
just click that and I'll call this test pattern and you can see it's created two nodes in the node.
Editor one for the material and one for the diffuse shader.
Now I need to create a texture to be applied to that shader So when it come down here and create a new
image or a new texture so click this and now I get this window and I'm going to go ahead and call this
texture the same thing pattern I want to call it test pattern 10:24 by 10:24 is fine for now and I'm
going to change the type from blank to the grid.
Now if I click OK it will create this checker pattern for me that I can use to test how much stretching
is happening on my object.
So to add that texture appear in the note editor I just need to go to add texture and image texture
and it's just here it is and I just click to drop it.
Now I need to choose that texture and I'll just click on the little browse menu and you can see here
I have the test pattern right here.
I'll choose that and then I just need to connect the color channel from the image texture to the color
channel of the diffuse shader.
And then we have our basic node set up for our material.
All right.
Now I still can't see it over here and all we need to do is switch from solid view to texture.
And there we go.
Now we can see what it looks like and it looks like to me we've got some stretching along here and that
makes sense because we were seeing kind of a light blue around the edge here
so to alleviate that kind of stretching.
Let's try one more thing.
Let's try adding seam right along this edge almoner press control the mark seam.
And now if I select everything and press you and on unwrap see what happens there I've still got that
pulling there.
So there's one more thing I can do.
I can come down here and choose one more edge down here and break this apart.
This cylindrical piece break this apart so it lays out flat.
So I'll press control key and mark a seam there.
Now if I select everything and press you and unwrap and where we go now it takes this cylindrical part
right around here and lays it all out flat.
And now that's nice and blue meaning there's very little stretching to it and that's good.
That's what we want.
All right.
So there is our first piece.